# Your Application Is Not Blazor

Blazor is a wonderful new way to write web-based applications. It is neither for native mobile, nor a traditional desktop. Perhaps your application is just a web application, but how much do you want to risk having only one platform? If you were selling homegoods, for instance, you would want your product at all retailers instead of just one. Software works the same way. You want multiple avenues to deliver your product. Customers these days expect you to have a working web, tablet, and native mobile version of your application. Your application is not Blazor, and Blazor is not your application. Think of Blazor as just one way of presenting your product to potential customers.

Separating the UI from the application itself gives you one of the most valuable currencies in software development, flexibility. The flexibility to stand-up an iOS or Android android alongside a web application with minimum frustration. Imagine your engineering team spent a year developing an self-contained web application only for your marketing team to discover that your customers prefer mobile or desktop? How would you pivot? It would take you a couple of months to rip all the back-end code out and put it into another solution. Separating it from the beginning gives you that luxury whenever you want. Need a desktop application as well? Not an issue. Flexibility is agile.

In one of my first consulting roles we had a client to had just recently overhauled their entire front-end from an "ancient" Silverlight at the time, to a passable Durandal web framework. Durandal may have stacked against the first generation of SPA's such as AngularJS, but was clearly outdated when compared to Angular and ReactJS. The issue was this client had chosen to put most of their application into a solution that contained both front and back-end code. This solution in turn, communicated to a multiples services in a quasi-SOA style architecture. The issue being, the front-end and back-end code was awkwardly married in a single solution. The only product they could give to their customer was a web application. Worst of all, they are going to have to upgrade from Durandal to a modern framework in the next couple of years. Going to the same types of headaches they had migrating from Silverlight to Durandal. Separating the UI from the rest of the application would minimize many of these issues.

A current client of mine is facing the same dilemma with a very similar technology stack. Their entire application is once again inside of a single solution monster application that contains both the UI and back-end. They face the same constraints as the other client. They are limited to a web application, and they have a very large solution to maintain. Adding a mobile or desktop application would take months or years to stand-up.

Separating the UI from your application is about taking out an insurance policy against your application. It means that you are investing more upfront for long term benefits. Most companies today are realizing that their customers want to engage in different ways, be that traditional web, native mobile, tablet, or desktop. Blazor can fit in to some of those roles, but not all of them. By keeping your UI separate from your application you are opening up your application and business to a greater audience and future proofing your company against new technologies.
