# Application Services Are Conductors

In an orchestra, choir, or any piece of music, the role of the conductor is to organize the music. This includes starting and stopping the musicians in synchronization, doing justice to the music, and cueing the musicians when it is their turn to play. A conductors job is not tell a violin or cello player how to play the instrument. Even if the conductor is an accomplished musician in their own right, while on the podium their role is keep the orchestra working together.

An application services' main role is to encapsulate a user-story. A user-story is no different than any piece of music with structure and movements. Not all pieces of a user-story play at the same time, just like how each instrument comes and goes in a piece of music. The application services takes on the role of the conductor, starting and stopping the user-story. Starting the new movement becomes using an interface. Cueing up the brass section turns into calling an method. Completing the user-story signals the end of the music.

The purpose of treating user-stories this way is testing. Application services that minimize "logic" in their structure are easier to test and maintain. Less logic means fewer unit tests due to fewer logical branches. Because every logical branch in our code requires a test, removing logic makes life easier. Application services are some of the hardest pieces to test because they require mocking dependencies. The best way to save ourselves the trouble of mocking multiple dependencies is to not do it in the first place.

Every time you are implementing a user story, you become Bernstein, Berlioz, and Stokowski. Interfaces becomes the strings, objects the woodwinds, and methods the brass and percussion. As the conductor these are the tools at your disposal to complete the task at hand. Organize them, and keep them in sync. But refrain from tell them how to do their job.
